code_of_conduct.md, before:

The Baobab community is made up of members from around the globe with
a diverse set of skills, personalities, and experiences. It is through
these differences that our community experiences great successes and
continued growth. When you're working with members of the community,
we encourage you to follow these guidelines which help steer our
interactions and strive to keep Baobab a positive, successful, and
growing community.

A member of the Baobab community is:

## Open

Members of the community are open to collaboration, whether it's on
feature proposals, patches, problems, or otherwise. We're receptive to
constructive comment and criticism, as the experiences and skill sets
of other members contribute to the whole of our efforts. We're
accepting of all who wish to take part in our activities, fostering an
environment where anyone can participate and everyone can make a
difference.

## Considerate

Members of the community are considerate of their peers -- other
Baobab users. We're thoughtful when addressing the efforts of others,
keeping in mind that often times the labor was completed simply for
the good of the community. We're attentive in our communications,
whether in person or online, and we're tactful when approaching
differing views.

## Respectful

Members of the community are respectful. We're respectful of others,
their positions, their skills, their commitments, and their
efforts. We're respectful of the volunteer efforts that permeate the
Baobab community. We're respectful of the processes set forth in the
community, and we work within them. When we disagree, we are courteous
in raising our issues.

Overall, we're good to each other. We contribute to this community not
because we have to, but because we want to. If we remember that, these
guidelines will come naturally.

Commit message:

rebranding to 'Trifle Lisp'
It's more memorable.

code_of_conduct.md, after:

The Trifle community is made up of members from around the globe with
a diverse set of skills, personalities, and experiences. It is through
these differences that our community experiences great successes and
continued growth. When you're working with members of the community,
we encourage you to follow these guidelines which help steer our
interactions and strive to keep Trifle a positive, successful, and
growing community.

A member of the Trifle community is:

## Open

Members of the community are open to collaboration, whether it's on
feature proposals, patches, problems, or otherwise. We're receptive to
constructive comment and criticism, as the experiences and skill sets
of other members contribute to the whole of our efforts. We're
accepting of all who wish to take part in our activities, fostering an
environment where anyone can participate and everyone can make a
difference.

## Considerate

Members of the community are considerate of their peers -- other
Trifle users. We're thoughtful when addressing the efforts of others,
keeping in mind that often times the labor was completed simply for
the good of the community. We're attentive in our communications,
whether in person or online, and we're tactful when approaching
differing views.

## Respectful

Members of the community are respectful. We're respectful of others,
their positions, their skills, their commitments, and their
efforts. We're respectful of the volunteer efforts that permeate the
Trifle community. We're respectful of the processes set forth in the
community, and we work within them. When we disagree, we are courteous
in raising our issues.

Overall, we're good to each other. We contribute to this community not
because we have to, but because we want to. If we remember that, these
guidelines will come naturally.
